# fork() in linux:
- Linux take the current running proccess and duplicates it.
- First take that we can do is to print our ***process id***, just to figure out who we are using:
  - `getpid()`
  - Every time I run the program, my `pid` will keep changing because I'm a new process to linux.
- `fork(void)` take no arguments and return the `pid_t`, the `typedef` ***process id***.

- On success, the PID of the child process is returned in the parent,  and  0  is returned  in  the  child.   On  failure, -1 is returned in the parent, no child process is created, and errno is set appropriately.
- Oftentimes we want to make the child do a certain work and then call `exit(0)`
- We can make the each the child and the parent do something in the background
- We often want to ***wait*** on the child to terminate before proceeding with the parent using `wait(NULL)`
- We can us `ps -a` to see the active processes
- making `int i = 0` global shows that the processes don't share the same global value, each one of them run on its own. Each one of them have a separate copy of the code.

## wait(int *wstatus) returned value
- wait expect an pointer to an integer.
- on  success, returns the process ID of the terminated child; on error, -1 is returned.
- if we exit in the child process with a certain value, let's say `exit(42)` and try to catch the result using `wait(&status)` i.e, storing the value in a variable that we create `int status = 0`
- if we print it, we will not get `42`
- We have to use the macro `WEIXTSTATUS(status` to basically interprete the result, which will return `42`

## waiting
- When the child process finishes before the parent, using `ps -a` will should the child process as `<defunct>`
- Which means the process has finished but not yet waited on
- It's known as a zombie process, we have to keep it around for the return value that the parent might need.
- It just sits there in memory till the parents get the return value